well first of all thank you for leaving
what is obviously a very important and
challenging and entertaining
presentation downstairs I almost felt
like skipping this and going down there
myself
but I appreciate your being here and
winding your way here about the summer
of 1980 I was living in Hartford
Connecticut at the time and I was taking
the train to New York I was going to
spend the weekend and had taken with me
full reading in the Train not that it
was a terribly long ride brand new book
the publisher had sent me for my review
it's called conspiracy by Anthony
summers which would go on to become for
me as it is for so many people one of
the one of the real seminal works in the
assassination and I've gotten to the
point in the Train I think that we were
almost he just passed the the halfway
point to the to the station in New York
and I was reading about this incident
that Tony talked about where Lee Oswald
reportedly asked to make a call to the
area code nine one nine and he then
proceeded to talk about this as well and
I looked at that and I said area nine
one nine that sounds very familiar okay
I'm sure I'll think of it and I went on
and about ten seconds later I realized
that's my area code because I was born
and raised in Raleigh North Carolina and
had moved to Hartford from Raleigh and
so needless to say my attention was
immediately galvanized so and the
publisher that was publishing my work at
the time was in Raleigh and so when I
got back to Hartford after the New York
weekend and by that time I had devoured
all of Tony's book I called up my
publisher Bernie Reeves and I said
Bernie if you're interested in another
article I just found this segment and I
read it to him and there was a little
silence on the end he says write it it's
okay if I write it you'll publish it
fine so that later that summer we had
the
first of the Rolly call articles that he
and I would publish the immediate
response was so amazing there in Raleigh
to hear about the fact that there was a
Raleigh connection that he called me in
Harford he says get your posterior but
he used another word down here we need
to it was a weekly publication he said
we need to get another article for next
week's publication so I immediately
drove back to North Carolina and he and
I spent the entire week on the phone
doing more interviews and so forth came
up with the second article the history
of this publication very briefly is that
in the 90s the publisher of the third
decade journal asked if I had something
on the Raleigh call that could be
published in there and I said well you
know I've been thinking about taking
these two articles bringing them up to
date a little bit putting them together
into one and you're welcome to have it
so they published that and thus began my
30-year career now with the Raleigh call
so that's my little slice and I
appreciate very much the fact that so
many authors have picked that up not
only for me because I picked it up
obviously from Toni and had been in
Canfield and web Irwin's book as well
and other other books Jim and others
have used this and it remains what it
was when I talked to Bob Blakey for the
for the article that we were writing it
remains as he called it real
substantiated very troublesome and
deeply disturbing he's not a man to
mince words as we know Blake he went on
to say that while this of course is only
a very small part of a much larger issue
and tragedy of the Kennedy assassination
it raises questions that remain and this
again quote from him remain unanswered
makes inferences which are ultimately
inconclusive and is the
for and unanswerable mystery well with
that kind of introduction from an
obvious expert in the field I thought I
was onto something so here's what I was
on to and the reason I brought up this
background is because as part of my
preparation for this I am preparing a
much larger revised update and expanded
version of the article it's already
three times its original size because
over the years I have been checking with
the slow process of the release of the
declassified documents from National
Archives and have pulled all of them
that are germane to the rolly call I
have taken the contents of that
published them on my website so they're
available in their entirety for anybody
who wants to see it and this article
will replace the braved abbreviated
version sometime between now and
November 22nd so I encourage you to go
and look at it but the conversation that
you and I will have today will be
including all of that new information
and there is actually one new thing that
has made the original publications about
the raleigh call out-of-date and
inaccurate and so we'll get to that as
well but for those of you who perhaps
have not read what the details are
here's here's all it is at some time
between 7 p.m. and 10 p.m. on that
Saturday November 23rd word came down
from the jail to the switchboard in the
Dallas jail building the Municipal
Building that at some point
Lee Oswald was going to want to make a
couple of phone calls they talked with
the senior switchboard operator at that
time there were two on on staff that of
that evening but they talked to the
senior one a mrs. Louise Sweeney and
said that when those calls were going to
be made they would send down a couple of
men who were going to monitor that and
of course reading that in a 2014 context
I'm thinking okay Miranda protection
privacy okay I guess none of that
appealed to them at the time but
nevertheless
say we're going to listen in and get all
the information they possibly could
about that little did she know exactly
what was going to unfold with that so
the call didn't come didn't come till
finally sometime around ten o'clock as
well attempted to make place the first
of his calls and mrs. Winnie when she
would talk about it later
would remember that the person he wanted
to call was and this is a quote from her
lawyer apt apt well of course she was
referring to and remembering wrong the
name of John AB to the attorney in New
York who was something of the staff
counsel for the communist party in
America and a very well-known figure at
that time we'll come back to that in
just a minute and what the fruition of
that call was because the Raleigh call
is not that call obviously some time
between 10:15 and ten thirty five the
lady that was working with mrs. Sweeney
had asked to get off early that night
and so her replacement who normally
wouldn't replace her in two eleven came
in early again sometime between 10:15
and ten thirty five the lady that had
been there left and the new one who came
in a woman by the name of mrs. alveta
tree on sat down at her area of the
switchboard and mrs. Sweeney told her
there's going to be a call coming up
from the jail they were on the fifth
floor and the switchboard was on the
fifth floor and that Oswald would be
attempting to make that call and that
two men would come down and monitor the
call so mrs. tree and said okay and you
know we'll just see how this unfolds
mrs. tree aunt's daughter who also
worked in for the Dallas Police
Department in the records department
also was to go on duty that night at
eleven o'clock for a shift on eleven to
seven shift like her mother so she came
down with her and joined her in the
switchboard or went up I suppose and
when she heard that she said to her
mother if he makes the call
write down the information we should
keep that as a souvenir and mrs. Triana
agreed that that's what she would do and
sometime after 10:30 the light on the
switchboard came in indicating a call
coming up from the jail and they both
knew exactly what that meant according
to mrs. tree Ann's testimony she and
mrs. Sweeny both plugged into the
switchboard at exactly the same time
both opened up the key to the call and
mrs. Triana actually was the first one
to say number please but at that point
mrs. Sweeny whose shift it really was
according to miss triage she said I I
saw that she wanted to handle the call
so I let her take it but I continued to
listen in and I heard everything that
Lee Oswald said to her about the call
that he wanted to make and so she took a
telephone slip that they had to fill out
at that time anytime a long-distance
call was made the process in the Dallas
Municipal Building was that a slip
giving the information of the time who
was responsible for the call who it was
going to what the telephone number was
what the area code was had to be filled
out had to be filed for accounting
purposes they had to know where to build
the call mrs. Treon had one of those
pads of paper in front of her and she
proceeded to write down all of the
information that Oswald was giving to
mrs. Winnie and so at that point when he
had given her all the information she
disconnected the key so that he could
not hear her but was still there on the
line and what happened next is sort of
transformative into the weird realm of
all the other things that happened in
this case it seemed not to have an
explanation and I'll pause here and kind
of leave you sitting there because so
many speakers at this conference so far
have put us right on the edge I remember
yesterday when we kept trying to get him
to finally tell us what was the man's
name who was who did the Cabella
extraction that I thought you know this
man has a flair for the
for the dramatic and I'm going to try to
do the same thing I titled this
particular presentation today the
Raleigh call on the fingerprints of
intelligence because if it is true and
if the things that happened according to
the written record of the time as it
appears that it did and according to the
testimony of mrs. Sweeny and mrs. Triana
and others then it has a very real
potential to speak to who as Wald was
was he involved with intelligence in the
United States did someone want him to
think that he was having some sort of
role in American intelligence or what
and so we are reminded of the famous
quote from Senator Schweiker which
everybody has used in their in their
books and presentations we don't know
what happened but we do know Oswald had
intelligence connections everywhere you
look with him there are the fingerprints
of intelligence Schweiker of course
working with the subcommittee of a
subcommittee that was involved with the
Kennedy assassination during the
intelligence hearings in the Senate was
in a position to know that and he was
very forthright about making that
statement but switching back to November
23rd 1963 just before Oswald had placed
the call upstairs and both mrs. Triana
mrs. Sweeney plugged in a knocking come
on the door and it was procedure that
the door be locked for security purposes
anytime at night on the weekends so
missus when he gets up opens the door
and two men dressed in suits not in
uniforms came in mrs. Treon said that
mrs. when he introduced them by their
titles or who they work for but she
didn't remember whether it was homicide
or Secret Service or who it was
and was they were placed in an adjacent
utility room where they could monitor
the call so we come back to the point
where we left it just a minute ago where
mrs. Triana said number please and
Oswald has given this information now
that souvenir that mrs. treants daughter
wanted when Oswald our and I read one
account that said at this point that
Oswald's plight was becoming dire and
I'm thinking wow that's the
understatement of the of the year that
he was reaching out at this point on
Saturday night first to lawyer AB and
and now it seems to someone else and the
the souvenir on written on one of the
telephone slips that mrs. tree on filled
out tells us exactly what she says she
heard Oswald tried to connect with and
it was this now you've seen rip
reproductions of this in books and
magazines and so forth I I sat down one
afternoon and did a read it ization of
it to get rid of all of the garbage that
had accumulated after a series of
Xeroxes of Xeroxes of Xeroxes and to
make it as readable as possible but
that's that's what has emerged and we'll
come back and talk about the individual
elements here in just a minute but this
is where things stand mrs. Sweeney has
written this information down and is
getting ready to act on it mrs. tree on
has written it down because she's going
to take it away as a souvenir and she
has signed mrs. Sweeney's name because
mrs. Sweeney was the one actually had
attempting to make the call
so mrs. 20 what we would say today puts
Oswald on hold connects with the two men
that are next door in the utility room
talks to them listens to them according
to mrs. tree on begins to get very
nervous and shaky to the point that it
was quite noticeable she disconnects
from the two men in the room next door
is still visibly shaken
she sits there contemplating thinking
waiting we're not sure exactly what she
was doing she gets back on the line with
Oswald and to the great astonishment of
mrs. tree on says I'm sorry sir the call
Fay
to go through disconnected from Oswald
and that was the end of that the two men
came out of the utility room thanked
them for their cooperation and left soon
thereafter mrs. Sweeny left her job
because her shift ended at eleven
o'clock and mrs. Triana was there all
night to think about and to remember
everything that had just happened and
try to make sense out of it
now reacted a little fast forwarding
because you will look in vain in the
eight hundred and eighty eight pages of
the Warren Commission and in the twenty
six volumes of evidence to find anything
about this particular incident because
it wasn't known mrs. tree on felt that
whoever it was that needed to know about
this and whoever those official people
were that was sufficient they didn't
need any more information from her
whatever they needed to know they had
found out fast forward about four and a
half years mrs. tree on and her husband
family have moved from the Dallas area
to Springfield Missouri and over dinner
conversation with a friend of hers and
her husband's a man by the name of
Winston Smith who worked for the local
federal penitentiaries and everybody
have one in their backyard and she
mentions oh by the way you know I had
this really bizarre thing happened you
know I was in the switchboard in the
Dallas jail on the night of Saturday
night when Oswald was in custody and
here's what happened and Smith with his
background in law enforcement thought
I'll bet someone wants to know about
this because it was would have been
clear to anyone who had followed the
case at all that no one had ever talked
about this in the four and a half years
since the assassination and three and a
half years since the Warren Commission
report came out so in early 68 he calls
her back a few days later and says I'm
going to tell sheriff Owen about this
because I think he really would want to
know and it very least he'd find it
interesting she said fine whatever you
want and so the sheriff comes and talks
to her sees immediately that she's
normal that was his word that she seemed
to have no
Oh problems with reality or maintaining
her ability to speak and and to be
articulate
and she also says oh by the way I still
have that phone slip if you think that
would be of any interest well yeah
probably would so he goes away knowing
that it's above his pay grade
so he calls a man then he knows that is
a special agent in the Springfield
office of the FBI and so they come and
talk with mrs. Triana and her
first-person account of that of those
conversations with the FBI I was
actually quite positive she said that
the men were very interested they were
very polite they were very thorough and
it seemed clear to her that they had
never heard about this story at all that
they were hearing about it as she said
for the first time she showed them this
telephone slip and they said may we take
this away with us to make a copy and
we'll be sure that you get it back and
she said well sure yeah very again very
forthcoming and so they did and they
left and some time went by and she had
not gotten her phone slip back and so
she called the sheriff sheriff said I'm
on it and he by contacting the FBI was
able to get her slip back to her and
that she thought would be the end of
anything that she would have to do with
this she had seen her duty and done it
as they say in the in the old movies and
felt that that was everything that would
be expected of her and she was a little
wrong in that part now things begin to
get strange as if they had not been
already remember Winston Smith who was
the friend of the of the treants who had
initially seen something here that
needed to be looked into he would then
tell the house assassinations committee
some ten years later when they asked him
that a week now I want you to keep that
seven days in mind this was his words
exactly you can look it up in those
declassified documents
a week after he told sheriff Mickey
green at Mickey Owen about this he
Winston Smith gets a call from a
national journalist whom he thought the
first name was Ian and the last name was
Caldwell or Calder or something but he
couldn't really remember and this
journalist was calling him in
Springfield Missouri from New Jersey
saying I understand that you know about
this call that Lee Oswald attempted to
make and that you've talked to the lady
that was in the switchboard and we just
wonder if we can get some more
information from you and he was
astounded as I was when I read that
document because that's the first I'd
heard of that
that literally seven days after the
first law enforcement person has ever
heard about this a journalist in New
Jersey has heard about it and is already
seeking some information it took just a
little while and a little bit more
digging into the documents from the
National Archives to find out who in
Calder was and blow me over with a
feather as they say Ian called her at
that time was a I think he was about a
28-year old cub reporter I don't know if
you could actually call him that he had
he was a born Scotsman he had gone to
London and National Enquirer hired him
in London after some years experience
that he had working for some newspapers
there in the United Kingdom hired him to
head up their London Bureau and then in
1966 they move him back to New York
where he was living in Fort Lee New
Jersey and so between 1966 and 1968 when
the when he called Winston Smith he had
started taking a great interest in the
Kennedy assassination and somehow or
another through the Sheriff's Office in
Greene County or the FBI and I would
probably bet it would
more likely had contacts in the latter
he found out about this and was calling
all the principal's about it
Ian Calder retired in the year 2000 and
he retired he was quite a resourceful
and very talented man and worked his way
up and he retired as CEO and president
of national enquirer in the year 2000
still with us by the way he lives in
Florida in in Palm Springs and I have
not contacted him yet and may not but
nevertheless that's just another one of
those little dangling things that ends
up out there so let's go back for just a
second
to our phone slip and see what this
tells us again if we take it at face
value and from now till until I tell you
we're going to assume that this is to be
taken at face value will come back and
examine it critically in just a moment
what this tells us and what mrs. Treon
said she heard with her own ears coming
out of Oswald's mouth via the telephone
was that he wished to make a collect
call which of course has been the only
kind of long-distance call he could have
made from the jail to Lee Lee Harvey
Oswald from the jail wanted to make a
call to Raleigh North Carolina and he
gave her and she mentions that he gave
to both ladies two telephone numbers and
wanted to speak to a John Hurt he gave
no middle name or initial the date of
course was Saturday the 23rd and it was
in area code nine one nine which was and
still is central North Carolina she then
added these codes over here which they
used in the switchboard and which we'd
all wondered about until we found some
additional documents for mrs. tree on
later she said I added this because da
means did not answer of course it didn't
it was never placed and the call was ca
canceled and that's what those things
mean so that's what that tells us but
going on beyond
what do these two telephone numbers mean
and I'm going to I'm going to just
dispose of the second phone number very
quickly because the house assassinations
committee did exactly the same thing
eight three three one two five three in
area code nine one nine in the years
between about 1960 and 1966 and that's
as far back on either side of the
assassination as I went on either side
belonged to a man named Henry W hurt and
I believe someone else has found out
that his middle name was initially a
middle initial stood for William though
I actually haven't seen that confirmed
in any of the official documents and
that he seemed to be a person of no
interest to the house assassinations
committee you will of course search in
vain through the entire published report
of the house assassinations committee to
find any information about the Raleigh
call but that does not mean that they
didn't spend a lot of time looking at it
obviously they knew all about it they
spent a lot of time in those documents
you'll see they spent a lot of person
hours and airplane miles to try to get
at the bottom of this so by the time it
was over with
Blakey who was kind of micromanager when
he wanted to be knew all of these
details and was able to tell me on the
phone in nineteen eighty shortly after
they had published their report all of
the things that he knew about how real
and substantiated
troublesome and disturbing the case was
so in the report that was written by the
group of counsel and investigators that
had looked into this even though this
report was never included in the in the
Select Committee's final report and not
even alluded to but in this report that
was written by staff counsel Sorrell
Brady she alludes to this second phone
number only four times and and only to
say the first time that it was one of
two numbers
second night time that it was the number
that for some reason Winston Smith had
memorized the one time he had seen the
phone slip one time to indicate that the
other John hurt that will talk
ii didn't know who that was and the
fourth time to indicate that they didn't
pursue it any further i have heard
reports and i've never-- also have never
seen this verified any kind of official
document was that someone had determined
that this belonged to a young man who
worked in an auto parts store in raleigh
barely out of his teens i cannot support
or verify that but whatever it is they
found out they never reported on it and
it never entered into the record
probably because of what they found out
about John Hurt number one eight three
four seven four three Oh was the
telephone number of John David hurt who
was on by the way our friends yesterday
are not the only ones that can go out on
on ancestry.com
John David hurt John David hurt among
the many things that we can and will say
about him was a special agent for US
Army counterintelligence during World
War two between about 1942 and 1945 he
told the researchers that from the house
assassinations committee he told me that
when I interviewed him he told Tony
summers that and more important that any
of that is the DoD confirmed all of that
to the house assassinations committee it
is beyond question what does that mean
Lee Oswald calling someone with the
history of working in American
intelligence when he was of course as
Arlen Specter in all of them would tell
us was the lone nut' who had no
connections at all I want to spend a
couple of seconds just going through
what we know about John David hurt to
give you a sense of who he was in 1963
because he was definitely just a shadow
of the of a person that he had been
during the war he received commendations
by the way for his work and when the war
was over the Army offered him a
commission which he did not accept
and given the way his health would
deteriorate after that it's probably not
a bad thing
but John David hurt born 1909 in
Colorado
he went to military school for high
school he took a Bachelor of Laws from
the University of Virginia he told me on
the phone he said but I never practiced
before the war he had gotten some
experience as an insurance investigator
and in 1939 in Raleigh where he had
ended up as an investigator he married
Billy Greer and Billy would remain his
wife till he died and then she would die
several years later as I said in 42 to
45 he was an army counterintelligence
special agent 47 to 43 he acted as an
investigator for insurance and other
kinds of corporate clients he worked as
an accident evaluator for the North
Carolina State motor vehicle department
until and about the second year of his
employment there which would have been
about 1955 it was discovered that he was
offering preferential treatment to
certain outside vendors when they would
need to contact them and he was given
the opportunity to resign rather than
being terminated at that point and which
he did and at that time his health and
his mental health began to deteriorate
in 63 his phone number and name came to
appear on that phone slip and his demon
battle with alcohol which had started in
the late 50s was raging by the time of
the mid I'm sorry of the late 50s by the
60s he was very much in the bottle and
one doctor told the State Bureau of
Investigation in in North Carolina that
he had diagnosed to mr. hurt as
manic-depressive paranoid and dangerous
to society by the end of the 1960s
so that was the man that was on the slip
there is absolutely no evidence
whatsoever and in fact I don't think
there ever will be because I don't think
it would be it would have been true that
Lee Oswald knew John Hurt and similarly
no evidence whatsoever that John Hurt
knew Lee Oswald or even knew of him
until the weekend of the assassination
mr. hurt when I talked to him in 1980
said you know I was I was always kind of
a fan of the president and he said if
anything I would have been more inclined
to shoot Oswald than to talk to him on
the phone and I wondered after I had
found out about his his medical and
addiction problems if that was maybe
some of that talking at the time or
whether that was his army
counterintelligence coming through I'll
have a lot more to say in my article
when I come in when it comes out about
what the DoD and the Veterans Affairs
people said about his career as a
counterintelligence special agent which
don't have time to go into today but I
will come in that to you the house that
he lived in it was actually a rooming
house in downtown Raleigh is now and I
would love to have been able to
substitute for this slide a historical
picture of the rooming house which is
actually kind of famous one block away
from the state capitol building in
Raleigh the address for anyone who knows
Raleigh is 201 Hillsborough Street and
it's now the parking lot and jogging
facility right next door to Campbell
University's Law School which is just
across the street so where are we with
all of this and what does it mean that
Oswald attempted to call a man by the
name of John Hurt and gave two phone
numbers both of which were assigned two
men named John Hurt about two different
men and at this point we have to go into
the realm of speculation because what
you have seen constitutes the entirety
of the actual evidence that exists
John Hurt is now dead mrs. Treon is now
dead mrs. sweni is now deceased there is
no person or trove of documents or
undiscovered depositions or anything
like that that we can go to that will
tell us anything that we don't know
jump forward just a little bit to the
early 70s and mid 70s researchers began
early on to find out and to tell each
other about the fact that the Rowley
call existed and here's how and why that
happened
somehow or another after mrs. Treon had
talked to and been interviewed by the
FBI in her home in 1968 a document
appears seemingly out of nowhere that
she had not seen and would not see for
another ten years
written in the form of an affidavit two
and a half pages legal size paper typed
on a typewriter with carbon copies made
we know that because I've actually
handled one of the carbon copy pages and
it set out there and people began to get
copies of it
circulating around by 1970 Paul Hoke had
gotten a copy of it and had written a
position paper that he had his opinion
about it and which we'll come back to
when we do a critical analysis I'm sorry
oh I'm sorry and so that's where things
stand that affidavit would show up as a
piece of evidence that would have that
was filed in oh let me see the
assassination information bureaus files
yeah but Fenster walls files yeah now
part of the American is the
assassination archives and research
center and when the house assassinations
committee was founded Jim Kaufman
reached into the files a file marked
tree on by the way pulled out this
three-page unsigned unnoticed obviously
if it wasn't signed
could be notarized document made a copy
of it send it along with its Exhibit A
which was the phone slip and send it to
the house assassinations committee said
we thought you'd like to know about this
and that's what started their level of
investigation in the mid 70s as I
indicated earlier can fill in web
Irwin's book and also Tony summers book
at the end of the 70s came out with
information about that and when I
interviewed summers about it after
getting back from that train trip to New
York and was writing my article
Tony very candidly told me he says you
know that's the one thing in the book
that I wish I hadn't put in there he
says because the more I've thought about
it and the more I have looked into it
and found nothing to support it he said
the more I just don't think it's real it
doesn't sit right with me and since I
can't verify it I wish I had not put it
in the book and I said okay I will duly
note that and in fact I had already
written that up to go into the article
that Summers was not happy with it as a
as a piece of the pie a few days later
literally I think within a week Tony
called me back and he says you know we
were talking about this call to Raleigh
North Carolina yes sir I've changed my
mind because I was just on a television
interview program with Robert Blakey and
he said after the interview we were
talking out in the parking lot and he
said I probably because your call had
already brought this back to my mind he
says I mentioned to Bob that I'm really
sorry that I put that in that one thing
in about the Raleigh call he said
because I just don't think that it
deserves to be in there and that's when
Blake he surprised the heck out of him
and said no no you've got that wrong the
call is real it went out from you know
the direction was out from Oswald it was
not a crank call into the jail we
verified that we're sitting on that we
just don't know why or who or how or
anything like that that connection was
made and he said to me I just wanted to
call you back and tell you
okay after talking to blinky I'm glad I
put it in the book so that's where we
stood that's where those articles were
written and then later of course some
critical analysis of this began to
happen I mentioned to you that Paul Hoke
had written in 1970 that he felt after
looking at it that it probably was not a
real thing and it probably was not a
real call from Oswald going out and
here's what he thought
in the original affidavit that
mysteriously appeared and we assume was
typed up by the FBI though we don't know
it says that after mrs. Sweeney closed
out the call didn't make the call for
Oswald told him it didn't it didn't
answer and everything was over the
affidavit says mrs. Sweeney tore off her
notes that she had made and threw them
in the trash and that later when mrs.
Sweeney had left her position for the
evening and mrs. Treon was there by
herself she went over to the trash can
pulled that information out and wrote up
the phone slip that you've seen and so
that being all he had to go on he says
you know that's pretty tenuous he said
here's what I think happened I think
that the call that mrs. tree on was in
the room for was the call to attorney
apt and that when she went fishing in
the trashcan what she really came up
with was information about a crank call
from an alcoholic former Army
counterintelligence person from back
weigh in World War two into the jail
cell trying to get it as well trying to
talk to him or whatever and so she took
that information and wrote it up and
that was what she said and that has a
ring of evidentiary nothingness because
like everything we have nothing to base
it on but it's logical and it could
easily have happened that way except for
the fact and we didn't know it then
because until the the files were
Declassified and finally released we
didn't know that the house
assassinations committee had sent to
mrs. tree on this
which means Triana had no clue existed
sent it to her in 1978 ten years after
it had been created by whomever and said
would you please verify that the
information here is correct or corrected
if it isn't and do you have any
indication about this that the that
either rings true or not she wrote back
and she said I've never seen this before
I would never have signed it because of
the inaccuracies in it and the major
inaccuracy that she pointed to was the
trash can and she said I never went
through the trash can I don't have any
idea what misses when he did with her
notes
it was totally unimportant to me she
said they may have asked me what mrs.
Sweeney did I might have said well
normally we just throw them away but she
said I don't really remember saying that
she said I was on the phone I listened
to it I heard Oswald's voice say those
words I wrote them down
contemporaneously with the call coming
in from the jail and that has a tendency
then to suggest that maybe those who
thought it was in reference to a crank
call coming in may have a little bit
less of a room to stand on and that in
fact was the that was the conclusion of
Sorel Brady and her group from the house
assassinations committee who were
writing up their final report and said
we believe that mrs. Ryan's testimony to
us and her emendations to the affidavit
have a ring of truth we don't know why
John hurt we don't know who he was we
have no indication he was involved in
all in the assassination so we can't go
there but we believe what mrs. Ryan said
the ringing endorsement so that's where
we stand does this in fact mean anything
and now we really go into the flights of
what-if because does this as Cyril Wecht
said today does this sound like the
actions of someone who was the lone nut'
that
Arlen Specter and the rest of them
wanted us to believe
and just as the answer for Cyril Wecht
was no when it came to the bullet wounds
it's no hear the the point cat has been
made that a call like this is absolutely
perfect spycraft
in that second set of interviews for the
second article that Bernie Reeves and I
worked on together we called Victor
Marchetti and because Toni summers at
point is that direction and we talked to
him at some length and in my article I
post the relevant portions of the
dialogue that I had with them and I said
we're trying to figure out what this
means and in the context of someone who
had been in intelligence and perhaps
someone who thought he was working for
American intelligence that may perhaps
someone was trying to convince him that
he was what does this mean and Victor
Marchetti said to us in no uncertain
terms that if he had seen this happen
with his own eyes he would be absolutely
convinced that someone had told Oswald
that if you ever get into trouble and if
you ever have a problem first of all
don't call us directly we don't want
anybody knowing who we are and here's
what you do you call John Hurt in
Raleigh North Carolina and you talk to
him and he'll get to us now why John
Hurt why John David hurt why that phone
number why is there a second phone
number well there are many possible
explanations but we don't know and
they're not verified at this point if he
had been told John hurt in Raleigh North
Carolina
I've demonstrated contrary to what
Southern Bell Telephone told the house
assassinations committee I have verified
beyond any doubt whatsoever that both of
those numbers were listed and available
so anyone calling directory assistance
of what we used to call at that time
information and given the name John Hurt
Raleigh North Carolina would have been
given those two numbers they were not
unlisted they were not unpublished as
the telephone company told the house
assassinations committee so Oswald could
have called memorized those two numbers
or written them in his
in his notepad that he had and given
those two to the operator again could
have might have we don't know but one
thing is that Victor Marchetti was
absolutely convinced that it was no it
was it was no accident that Oswald was
behaving like an intelligence agent in
the field and whether he was working for
American intelligence my personal
opinion may be 10% that probability that
that's true or someone was stringing him
along using him and making him think
that he was working for American
intelligence much more likely in my
opinion this is a kind of spy craft that
he would have been given to do it at
least fits with the facts that we know
and that's as far as we can go the last
thing that Victor Marchetti said to us
was that you know this fits in with the
o ni operation that they had going on
down at nags head where they were
working with disaffected young men who
had washed out of the service the
American Armed Services training them to
become double agents and defect to the
Soviet Union hmm anything who does that
sound like and he said it's entirely
possible he said I've always thought it
was very possible that Oswald after his
stint in the military where he decided
on his own that he wanted to learn how
to speak Russian that maybe he would
have been directed as a Marine all right
still the Department of Navy would have
been directed to this Oh an AI program
and might well have an explanation there
for his sojourn to the Soviet Union
again mytabs could have no real proof
that that is the case so that's where we
are with the with the Rolly call at this
point I'll just
I found this screenshot of Victor
Marchetti it's been a long time since
I've actually seen a photo of him other
than that one in the upper right hand
corner but he's the one that gave us all
of that background on spy craft the
three books that I had used at that
point
that had involved and had given me the
the work that I had done Cantrell and
Webb ermine summers and of course
Douglass's work which has kind of
summarized things at this point can feel
and Webb ermine interest from the
standpoint of the Kennedys in fact be
inclined to take the same action Ruby
took I would have loved to put a bullet
in Oswald that's he told can feel and
Webber man that as well as telling me
that summers today former CIA officer
Marchetti draws attention to the
telephone number which related in 63 to
a subscriber in Raleigh Marchetti points
out this is the same general areas in
North Carolina as the north carolina
base where according to him oh and i
once planned infiltration missions into
the soviet union again unless further
research resolves it just sort of stands
there and then douglas has basically
written in his book that it stands as is
and the house assassinations committee's
summary that missus tree on was probably
telling the truth as as she experienced
it final thing information provided by
missus tree on this comes from Sorrell
Brady's report which again unpublished
until it appeared on my website and it's
still there and you can read the entire
thing her daughter
business and Lewis when he all naked
Oswald did in fact attempt to place a
call to the Dallas from the Dallas jail
on that night but who John Hurt was and
what was going on with that we don't
know and who those law-enforcement
officials were we don't know that either
so that is that is as well as we know
him it is one more glimpse it's one more
tantalizing little thing out there and
we don't know if how that stands and
where it goes from here this was
referred to yesterday and I love it
this is a you know it's just one more
piece of fuel to those people who would
mock this and the onion satire Kennedy
slain by CIA mafia Castro LBJ Teamsters
Freemasons 129 times from forty three
different angles that's the response
that we have gotten
we all have gotten when we tried to work
with the media on this I would encourage
you if you have an interest in such
things the raleigh spy conference put on
by Bernie Reeves my former publisher and
my still my great friend the Rolly spy
conference is one of the best things
it's where as someone described it it's
where old spies go to sell each other
books and but it really is has a great
deal of interest every summer I and
that's what I have for you today look
for that article if you have any
interest in it my websites up there and
sometime between now and November 22nd
that expanded article will be there
I know we've run a little long and I
apologize for that but if you have any
questions we can kind of move out of the
way and let the next people come in here
I'd be happy to talk to you thank you
very much